First draft of landing page (#135)
flox/floxdocs: docs/index.md

---

## Get Started
<div class="grid cards" markdown>

-   :octicons-terminal-24:{ .lg .middle } __Quick start with the Flox CLI__

    ---

    Install `flox` with `apt`, `yum`, `brew`, or a system installer to get your dev 
    environment set up in minutes.

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Download & Install][install_flox]

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Flox in 5 minutes][flox_5_minutes]
    
    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Search packages in FloxHub][floxhub_packages]{:target="_blank"}

-   :material-nix:{ .lg .middle } __Already using Nix? Start here__

    ---

    Flox brings the power of Nix to your team, and can simplify your workflows too.

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Install Flox with flakes or profiles](install-flox.md?h=nix#__tabbed_1_6){:target="_blank"}

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Flox brings Nix to your teams](https://flox.dev/blog/its-time-to-bring-nix-to-work/){:target="_blank"}

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Use flakes in Flox](https://flox.dev/blog/extending-flox-with-nix-flakes/){:target="_blank"}

</div>

> Guides for getting started in just a few of the many languages Flox supports:

Reviewer: My nitpick about the word "guides" here is that is sounds like the linked blog posts are the suggested way of getting started, when in actuality they're examples of projects (I haven't read all of the blog posts, but that's at least how my Rust post was). Maybe "Examples" instead?

[Go :fontawesome-brands-golang:](https://flox.dev/blog/using-flox-to-create-portable-reproducible-go-environments/){ .md-button }
[Python :fontawesome-brands-python:](https://flox.dev/blog/using-flox-to-create-portable-reproducible-python-environments/){ .md-button }
[Rust :fontawesome-brands-rust:](https://flox.dev/blog/a-real-world-rust-project-with-flox/){ .md-button }
[Ruby :material-language-ruby:](https://flox.dev/blog/making-ruby-projects-easier-to-share/){ .md-button }

---

## Why Flox?

We encounter the same challenges, no matter the stack: inconsistent environments, dependency drift, and brittle build processes that don’t scale well across machines, teams, or deployment targets. Current solutions often add complexity and fragmentation.

Flox takes a different approach: it provides a consistent, language-agnostic workflow for managing environments, from local development to CI to production.

Use Flox to solve three common use cases: 

- Reproducible dev environments
- Reliable package management across systems 
- Consistent builds from local to production

### __Reproducible dev environments__

> Set up a [local developer environment](https://flox.dev/docs/tutorials/creating-environments/) that will work the same across multiple system types and architectures. Seamlessly switch between development environments across multiple language ecosystems using a consistent, unified workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set up a [local developer environment](https://flox.dev/docs/tutorials/creating-environments/) that will work the same across multiple operating systems and architectures. Seamlessly switch between development environments across multiple language ecosystems using a consistent, unified workflow.
```

`system types` would include both operating system and architectures in my mind, so if we've split out architectures, it makes sense to split out operating systems as well.

Declare all the packages, activation scripts, environment variables and [services](https://flox.dev/docs/concepts/services/) needed to reproduce the environment in a simple manifest that can be checked into [version control along with your source code](https://flox.dev/blog/flox-and-teams-managing-your-code-and-your-runtime-environment-in-just-one-place/).

Once your environment is configured, you can simplify the setup instructions in your README to a single command (`flox activate`), making it easy to [share environments](https://flox.dev/blog/flox-and-teams-using-shared-flox-environments/) and [onboard new developers](https://flox.dev/blog/flox-and-teams-onboarding-made-easy-with-github-and-flox/).

### __Cross-platform package management for your whole system__

Set up your [default environment](https://flox.dev/docs/tutorials/default-environment/) with a set of 

> packages that you always want available, whether you're on macOS or Linux—x86 or ARM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
packages that you always want available, whether you're on macOS or Linux—x86 or Arm.
```

Then, when you need to [set up a new laptop](https://flox.dev/blog/setting-up-a-new-laptop-made-easy-with-flox/
), or [keep multiple machines in sync](https://flox.dev/docs/tutorials/sharing-environments/#always-using-the-same-environment-across-multiple-devices
), you can be sure you're using the exact same versions, no matter when or where you need them. 

If you're already using Homebrew, you can easily [migrate or use Homebrew and Flox together](https://flox.dev/docs/tutorials/migrations/homebrew/).

### __Consistent builds from local to CI to production__

> Flox lets you define what an environment _is_ in a way that can be reused across local dev, CI, and production. 

Reviewer: I think you could drop this sentence.

Author: Let's leave it in. Unless @barstoolbluz would you cut it or rewrite?

> Leverage [pre-built integrations](https://flox.dev/docs/tutorials/ci-cd/?h=ci) for GitHub Actions, CircleCI, and GitLab to pull and activate the same environments locally, in CI and in prod. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Leverage [pre-built integrations](https://flox.dev/docs/tutorials/ci-cd/?h=ci) for GitHub Actions, CircleCI, and GitLab to pull and activate the same environments locally, in CI and in production. 
```

> Or use Flox [containerize](https://flox.dev/docs/reference/command-reference/flox-containerize/?h=containerize) to package your environments as OCI images—fully pinned and runnable anywhere. 

Reviewer: I'm not really sure what "fully pinned" means here. You could mention that the images only contain exactly what your software needs to run (most images build on top of an OS, and ours don't).

Author: @barstoolbluz thoughts or revisions here?

From bare metal to VMs, from Docker Swarm to Kubernetes to AWS Lambda—the runtime context might change, but Flox environments run and behave the same everywhere.

Need an example? See how [the Flox Docs team uses Flox in CI](https://flox.dev/blog/integrating-flox-with-ci-for-consistent-reproducible-dev-environments/) to build, test and deploy this docs site. 

### __And more...__

> - Create a reusable toolchain or templates to bootstrap new projects by [reusing and combining dev environments](https://flox.dev/docs/tutorials/composition/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Create templates or reusable toolchains to bootstrap new projects by [reusing and combining dev environments](https://flox.dev/docs/tutorials/composition/).
```

---
title: Introduction
description: What is Flox?

---

<!-- shut up linter -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable-file MD033 -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable-file MD009 -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable-file MD022 -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable-file MD030 -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable-file MD012 -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable-file MD032 -->

# What is Flox?

Flox is a next-generation, language-agnostic package and environment manager.   

>   :material-arrow-right-thick: Define everything your environment needs—packages, tools, environment variables, and services—in one manifest.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Define everything your environment needs—packages, tools, environment variables, and services—in one manifest.  
```

Reviewer 2: I like how the right arrows look, but they don't indent properly on their second lines. Standard bullets will indent properly - perhaps @brendaneamon knows a way to accomplish this?

Author: Agree, I'll change to standard bullets!

  :material-arrow-right-thick: Switch between environments easily, share them with your team, and keep everything in version control.   
  :material-arrow-right-thick: Use the same setup across macOS and Linux, on both x86 and ARM.     

Flox achieves isolation through pre-configured sub-shells, not containers, so it works seamlessly with your existing tools, shells, and dotfiles. Under the hood, Flox uses Nix to ensure reproducibility—without requiring you to learn Nix.    

Flox makes it easy to work locally, test in CI, and deploy to production—all with the same environment.

 <iframe width="550" height="300" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/aidi5svDml8?si=rrgQ6a0oQzdFNgWs" title="What is Flox?" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe> 

## Get Started
<div class="grid cards" markdown>

-   :octicons-terminal-24:{ .lg .middle } __Quick start with the Flox CLI__

    ---

>     Install `flox` with `brew` and get your dev 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Install `flox` and get your dev 
```

Author: How about 
> Install `flox` with `apt`, `yum`, or `brew` and ...

Author: Ah, sorry I didn't explain. The reason for calling out brew specifically is because we saw in several research sessions that (1) people looked for brew as an install method but didn't see it on the website so they chose the download instead and (2) when someone did find or use brew, they were delighted to use that method. 

My hypothesis is that if you just put the word `brew` front and center when you mention install, they won't have to click to the Install docs, and can just get started even more quickly. Adding `apt` and `yum` would do the same for those users. 

How about this:
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1d654f08-4e7a-41dc-a4c7-86faf60c3c1a)

Reviewer 2: That is a fine compromise.

I understand that we have that research result, but I don't agree that putting brew front and center is the best decision. I weigh those research experiences in my mind lower than the desire not to confuse people about the role Flox plays in their stack.

    environment set up in minutes.

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Download & Install][install_flox]

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Flox in 5 minutes][flox_5_minutes]
    
    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Search packages in FloxHub][floxhub_packages]{:target="_blank"}

-   :material-nix:{ .lg .middle } __Already using Nix? Start here__

    ---

>     Flox makes the power of Nix more accessible for your team, and maybe for you too.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Flox brings the power of Nix to your team, and can simplify your workflows too.
```

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Install Flox with flakes or profiles](install-flox.md?h=nix#__tabbed_1_6){:target="_blank"}

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Flox brings Nix to your teams](https://flox.dev/blog/its-time-to-bring-nix-to-work/){:target="_blank"}

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Use flakes in Flox](https://flox.dev/blog/extending-flox-with-nix-flakes/){:target="_blank"}

</div>

Guides for getting started in just a few of the many languages Flox supports:

[Node :simple-nodedotjs:](https://flox.dev/blog/using-flox-to-create-portable-reproducible-nodejs-environments/){ .md-button }
[Go :fontawesome-brands-golang:](https://flox.dev/blog/using-flox-to-create-portable-reproducible-go-environments/){ .md-button }
[Python :fontawesome-brands-python:](https://flox.dev/blog/using-flox-to-create-portable-reproducible-python-environments/){ .md-button }
[Rust :fontawesome-brands-rust:](https://flox.dev/blog/a-real-world-rust-project-with-flox/){ .md-button }
[Ruby :material-language-ruby:](https://flox.dev/blog/making-ruby-projects-easier-to-share/){ .md-button }

## Why Flox?

> The same challenges, no matter the stack: inconsistent environments, dependency drift, and brittle build processes that don’t scale well across machines, teams, or deployment targets. Current solutions often add complexity and fragmentation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We encounter the same challenges, no matter the stack: inconsistent environments, dependency drift, and brittle build processes that don’t scale well across machines, teams, or deployment targets. Current solutions often add complexity and fragmentation.
```

> Flox takes a different approach — providing a consistent, language-agnostic workflow for managing environments that just works, from local development to CI to production. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Flox takes a different approach: it provides a consistent, language-agnostic workflow for managing environments, from local development to CI to production.
```

Declare all the [packages](https://hub.flox.dev/packages), [activation scripts](https://flox.dev/blog/mastering-hooks-and-profiles-for-reproducible-flox-environments/), [environment variables](https://flox.dev/docs/tutorials/creating-environments/#customize-the-shell-hook-and-environment-variables) and [services](https://flox.dev/docs/concepts/services/) needed to reproduce the environment in a simple [manifest](https://flox.dev/docs/concepts/manifest/) that can be checked into [version control along with your source code](https://flox.dev/blog/flox-and-teams-managing-your-code-and-your-runtime-environment-in-just-one-place/).

Once your environment is configured, you can simplify the setup instructions in your README to a single command (`flox activate`), making it easy to [share environments](https://flox.dev/blog/flox-and-teams-using-shared-flox-environments/) and [onboard new developers](https://flox.dev/blog/flox-and-teams-onboarding-made-easy-with-github-and-flox/).

### __Reproducible package management for any system__

Set up your [default environment](https://flox.dev/docs/tutorials/default-environment/) with a set of 

> packages that you always want available, whether you're on macOS or Linux -- x86 or ARM.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
packages that you always want available, whether you're on macOS or Linux—x86 or ARM.
```

### __Consistent builds from local to CI to production__

Flox lets you define what an environment _is_ in a way that can be reused across local dev, CI, and production. 
Leverage [pre-built integrations](https://flox.dev/docs/tutorials/ci-cd/?h=ci) for GitHub Actions, CircleCI, and GitLab to pull and activate the same environments locally, in CI and in prod. 

Or use Flox [containerize](https://flox.dev/docs/reference/command-reference/flox-containerize/?h=containerize) to package your environments as OCI images—fully pinned and runnable anywhere. 
From bare metal to VMs, from Docker Swarm to Kubernetes to AWS Lambda—the runtime context might change, but Flox environments run and behave the same everywhere.

Need an example? See how [the Flox Docs team uses Flox in CI](https://flox.dev/blog/integrating-flox-with-ci-for-consistent-reproducible-dev-environments/) to build, test and deploy this docs site. 

### And more...

- Create a reusable toolchain or templates to bootstrap new projects by [reusing and combining dev environments](https://flox.dev/docs/tutorials/composition/).

> - Create a portable [environment with transparent auth](https://flox.dev/blog/get-your-preferred-secrets-manager-in-a-portable-cross-platform-cli-toolkit/) via a third-party secrets manager so cross-platform workflows work the same everywhere —- locally, in CI, or in production.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Create a portable [environment with transparent auth](https://flox.dev/blog/get-your-preferred-secrets-manager-in-a-portable-cross-platform-cli-toolkit/) via a third-party secrets manager so cross-platform workflows work the same everywhere: locally, in CI, or in production.
```

Author: updated!
